.\" lumosctl(1) manual entry ("manpage") for printing by command-line users
.\" via the man(1) command.  This file also contains hints used by our quick-and-
.\" dirty script which reformats it into the overall Lumos user manual set.  These
.\" are in comments and won't interfere with troff/groff/nroff formatting.
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2013, 2014 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA.
.\" All Rights Reserved.  Released under the terms and conditions of the
.\" Open Software License (see the LICENSE file which accompanied this software
.\" release for details.)
.\"
.\" <<bold-is-fixed>> <<ital-is-var>>
.TH LUMOSCTL 1 2.0 "Lumos SSR Controller" "Utility Commands"
.SH NAME
lumosctl \- Manual control for Lumos SSR controller hardware
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lumosctl
.RB [ \-dFhkPRrSvwXz ]
.RB [ \-a
.IR addr ]
.RB [ \-A
.IR addr ]
.RB [ \-b
.IR speed ]
.RB [ \-B
.IR speed ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-C
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-D
.IR sens ]
.RB [ \-E
.IR sens ]
.RB [ \-H 
.IR hexfile ]
.RB [ \-L
.IR level ]
.RB [ \-m
.IR mS ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR port ]
.RB [ \-P
.IR phase ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-T
.IR mode ]
.RB [ \-t
.IB s \fR[\fPorw+\fR]\fP: init : seq : term\fR]\fP
.RB [ \-x
.IB duplex ]
.IR channel-outputs ...
.LP
Where
.I channel-outputs 
may be any combination of:
.\" <<center>>
.RS
.LP
.IR channel [\fB@\fP level [\fB,\fP...]]
.br
.IR channel \fBd\fP[ \fB:\fPsteps [ \fB:\fPtime ]]
.br
.IR channel \fBu\fP[ \fB:\fPsteps [ \fB:\fPtime ]]
.br
.BI x id
.br
.BI p time
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This command allows you to directly manipulate the state of a
supported Lumos
SSR controller unit, including administration functions
such as changing the unit's address, phase offset, etc.
.LP
Other software such as 
.BR lumos (1)
or\(emproviding appropriate drivers are installed\(empopular
third-party programs such as Vixen are more appropriate for
performing (\*(lqplaying\*(rq) sequences of light patterns on
these boards.  By contrast, 
.B lumosctl
is more suited to setting up and configuring the boards (although some
basic real-time control of channel outputs is possible using
.BR lumosctl ).
.LP
In the absence of any command-line options to the contrary, the
normal 
operation of
.B lumosctl
is to make a number of channel output level 
changes as determined by the non-option arguments which are of the
form:
.\" <<center>>
.RS
.I channel
.RE
or
.\" <<center>>
.RS
.IB channel @ level \fR[\fP,\fR...]\fP
.RE
or
.\" <<center>>
.RS
.IB channel \fR{\fPu\fR|\fPd\fR}[\fP: steps \fR[\fP: time \fR]]\fP
.RE
.LP
In the first case, a channel number by itself means to turn on that 
channel to full brightness.  In the second case, by specifying a level value
(a number from 0 to 255, inclusive), that channel's output is dimmed
to the given level.  Level 255 is the same as turning on to full 
brightness; level 0 is the same as turning it fully off.
.LP
In the third case, the dimmer level is ramped up smoothly from its current
value to full brightness 
.RB (\*(lq u \*(rq),
or down smoothly until fully off
.RB (\*(lq d \*(rq).
Optionally you may specify the number of dimmer level increments
to increase or decrease at each change (1\-128, default is 1); additionally,
you may specify the amount of time to wait between each step, in units
of 1/120 second (1\-128, default is 1).  As a convenience, this may be
expressed as a real number of seconds followed by the letter 
.RB \*(lq s \*(rq.
Thus, the argument
.B 13@127
sets channel 13 to half brightness.  If this were followed by the argument
.B 13u
then channel 13 would be smoothly increased in brightness from there to full
brightness (which is another 128 levels to take it from 127 to 255), 
by incrementing it one level every 1/120th of a second, reaching a full
brightness level 128/120 seconds later (1.0666 seconds).  If the 
argument
.B 13d:10:2
were given, then channel 13 would drop to being fully off, going in steps
of 10 levels at a time, 1/60th of a second between each step.
Finally, an argument
.B 10u:5:0.25s
fades channel 10 up from its current value to full brightness by incrementing
its value by 5 every quarter-second.
.LP
Bulk updating of channels is also supported.  If multiple values are listed
for a channel, such as:
.RS
.B "10@0,0,255,255,127,40,30,20,10"
.RE
.LP
Then the channel named (10 in this example) is assigned the first value
(0), and the subsequent values are assigned to the immediately following
channels (so channel 11 is set to 0, 12 is set to 255, and so forth).
.\".LP
.\"Note that if a controller implements a lower resolution dimmer than
.\"256 levels (e.g., 128 or 64 levels), the same number scale is used
.\"(0\-255), with the dimmer output scaled accordingly.  For example,
.\"if the hardware implements only 128 dimmer levels, then levels 0 and 1
.\"are fully off, 2 and 3 are the next level up, and so on, with
.\"values 252 and 253 being the penultimate dimmer level,
.\"and 254 and 255 being fully on.
.\" XXX FUTURE XXX  .LP
.\" XXX FUTURE XXX  In addition to the channel-setting argument described above,
.\" XXX FUTURE XXX  an argument of the form
.\" XXX FUTURE XXX  .BI x i
.\" XXX FUTURE XXX  causes stored sequence 
.\" XXX FUTURE XXX  .I i
.\" XXX FUTURE XXX  to be executed.  Note that this is run in the \*(lqbackground\*(rq\(emany
.\" XXX FUTURE XXX  subsequent channel-setting arguments will be acted upon \" <</ital-is-var>>
.\" XXX FUTURE XXX  .I while
.\" XXX FUTURE XXX  the sequence is running.  If a sequence was already running, it is stopped first.
.\" XXX FUTURE XXX  As a special case, 
.\" XXX FUTURE XXX  .B x0
.\" XXX FUTURE XXX  stops the currently-running sequence but does not start a new one.
.LP
A pause in the execution of the arguments may be effected by adding an
argument of the form \" <<ital-is-var>>
.BI p t \fR[\fPs\fR[\fPec\fR[\fPond\fR[\fPs\fR]]]]\fP
which makes
.B lumosctl
pause for
.I t
seconds before continuing on to the next argument.  The
.I t
value need not be an integer.
.LP
A number of options are provided as described below.  These command
the SSR controller to perform certain administrative functions or 
configuration changes.
.LP
When giving multiple types of commands in one invocation of this
program, they will be carried out in the following order:
.TP \" <<enumerate>>
1. 
Address Change
.TP
2. 
Kill all channels
.TP
3. 
Other configuration changes
.TP
4. 
Disable configuration mode
.TP
5. 
Channel(s) off/on/dim/etc.
.TP
6. 
Shutdown
.\" <</>>
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Each of the following options may be specified by either a long
option (like
.RB \*(lq \-\-verbose \*(rq)
or a shorter option letter (like
.RB \*(lq \-v \*(rq).
If an option takes a parameter, it may follow the option as
.RB \*(lq \-a12 \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq "\-a 12" \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq "\-\-address 12" \*(rq,
or
.RB \*(lq "\-\-address=12" \*(rq.
.LP
Long option names may be abbreviated to any unambiguous initial substring.
.TP 27 \" <<list>>
.BI \-\-address= addr
.RB ( \-a
.IR addr )
Specifies the address of the target controller unit.  The
.I addr
value is an integer from 0 to 15, inclusive.  It defaults to 0.
.TP
.B \-\-clear\-sequences
.RB ( \-S )
Delete all stored sequences from the device's memory.
.\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B "[This is a future feature, currently not available on Lumos boards.]"
.\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TP
.BI \-\-disable\-sensor= s
.RB ( \-D
.IR s )
Disable inputs from the sensor(s) specified as the
.I s
parameter (which are given as a set of one or more letters,
e.g., 
.BR \-\-disable\-sensor=ab ).
The Lumos board will act as though those sensors were 
inactive regardless of their actual inputs.
The special character
.RB \*(lq * \*(rq
appearing in 
.I s
means to disable all sensors.
.\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B "[This is a future feature, currently not available on Lumos boards.]"
.\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TP
.B \-\-drop\-configuration\-mode
.RB ( \-d )
If the Lumos device is in configuration command mode (for configuraiton of
the device), this will cancel that mode.  Further configuration commands will
not be recognized on that device.
.TP
.BI \-\-dump\-configuration\-file= file
.RB ( \-C
.IR file )
Dump the device configuration into the named
.IR file .
See below for a description of the configuration file format.
.TP
.BI \-\-enable\-sensor= s
.RB ( \-E
.IR s )
Enable inputs from the sensor(s) specified as the 
.I s
parameter.  See 
.BR \-\-disable\-sensor .
.\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B "[This is a future feature, currently not available on Lumos boards.]"
.\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TP
.B \-\-factory\-reset
.RB ( \-F )
Resets the board to its initial default settings, as it would have arrived \*(lqout of the box\*(rq
as it were (of course this is a DIY project, so there's no actual \*(lqfactory\*(rq but if there
were one, these are the defaults the board would come shipped with).  This can also be accomplished
by inserting a jumper on the board in the correct sequence.  See the Lumos controller user's manual
for details.
.TP
.B \-\-help
.RB ( \-h )
Prints a summary of these options and exits.
.TP
.B \-\-kill\-all
.RB ( \-k )
Turn off all output channels at once.
.TP
.BI \-\-load\-compiled\-sequence= file
.RB ( \-H
.IR file )
Load one or more pre-compiled sequences from the specified hex 
.IR file .
This is expected to be the output from the 
.BR lumosasm (1)
command.
.\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B "[This is a future feature, currently not available on Lumos boards.]"
.\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TP
.BI \-\-load\-configuration\-file= file
.RB ( \-c
.IR file )
Load the device configuration from the named
.I file
and program that into the device.
.TP 
.BI \-\-load\-sequence= file
.RB ( \-s
.IR file )
Load one or more sequences from the specified source
.I file
(see below for sequence source code syntax) and program them
into the device.  If another sequence already exists with the
same number, it replaces the old one; however, beware that the
controller device does not optimize memory storage, so eventually
stored sequences may become fragmented, resulting in running out of
storage space for them.  To avoid this, it is best to clear all
sequences using the
.B \-\-clear\-sequences
option, then load all the sequences you want on the device at once.
.\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B "[This is a future feature, currently not available on Lumos boards.]"
.\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.TP
.BI \-\-port= port
.RB ( \-p
.IR port )
Specify the serial port to use when communicating with the controller
unit.  This may be a simple integer value (0 for the first serial port
on the system, 1 for the next one, etc.) or the actual device name
on your system (such as 
.RB \*(lq COM1 \*(rq
or
.RB \*(lq /dev/ttys0 \*(rq).
.TP
.B \-\-probe
.RB ( \-P )
Search for, and report on, all Lumos controllers attached to the serial network.
If the
.B \-\-report
option is also specified, this provides that level of output for every attached
device; otherwise, it only lists device models and addresses.
.TP
.B \-\-read\-only
.RB ( \-r )
Do not query the Lumos board's status.  Normally, 
.B lumosctl
reads back the board status at the start and after each configuration change
to ensure that the changes were successful.  If you are using the board under
conditions where getting data from the Lumos board is not possible (e.g., if your
RS-485 adapter doesn't support a return channel), use the
.B \-r
option to suppress this part of
.BR lumosctl "'s"
behavior.  This means that configuration requests are sent \*(lqblindly\*(rq to
the Lumos board without any way to confirm that they took effect.  (The name
of this option seems backwards, but it was named from the Lumos board's point
of view\(emthat is, it sees its data connection as a read-only source of data
and won't try to send any data back to the PC.)
.TP
.B \-\-report
.RB ( \-R )
Report on the current device status to standard output in human-readable form.
.TP
.BI \-\-sensor= s \fR[\fPorw+\fR]\fP: init : seq : term
.RB ( \-t
.IB s \fR[\fPorw+\fR]\fP: init : seq : term \fR)\fP
Define an action to be taken when a sensor is triggered.  When the sensor
is activated, the sequence
.I init
is run, followed by the sequence
.I seq
and then finally the sequence
.I term
when the sensor event is over.  The sensor assigned this action is given
as the parameter
.I s
and is one of the letters 
.BR A ,
.BR B ,
.BR C ,
or
.BR D .
This may be followed by the following option letters as needed:
.RS \" <<itemize>>
.TP 4
.BR o
Trigger once: play sequence
.I seq
only one time.  The action will not be taken again until the sensor
input transitions to inactive and then asserts itself as active again.
This is the default action.
.TP
.B r
Repeat mode: play sequence
.I seq
indefinitely until explicitly told to stop (by an overt stop command
such as an
.B x0
argument, or another sequence being triggered manually or by sensor
action).
.TP
.B w
Trigger while active: play sequence
.I seq
repeatedly as long as the sensor remains active.  When the sensor input
transitions to inactive again, terminate the action.
.TP
.B +
The sensor is to be considered \*(lqactive\*(rq when at a logic
high output (active-high mode).  Normally, sensors are active-low
(active when the input is at ground).
.LP \" <</>>
If 0 is specified for any of the sequence numbers, that means no
sequence is called for that part of the trigger action.
.LP
.\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B "[This is a future feature, currently not available on Lumos boards.]"
.\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
.RE 
.TP
.BI \-\-set\-address= addr
.RB ( \-A
.IR addr )
Change the device address to
.IR addr .
This must be an integer in the range 0\-15.
.TP
.BI \-\-set\-baud\-rate= speed
.RB ( \-B
.IR rate )
Set a new baud rate for the device to start using from now on.
.TP
.BI \-\-set\-phase= offset
.RB ( \-P
.IR offset )
Set the phase 
.\" <</ital-is-var>>
.I offset 
in the device to the specified value.  This must be an integer in the range 0\-511.
.I "This is an advanced setting which affects the ability of the AC relay boards to"
.I "function properly. Do not change this setting unless you know exactly what you are doing."
.\" <<ital-is-var>>
.TP
.B \-\-sleep
.RB ( \-z )
Tell the unit to go to sleep (this instructs the board to turn off a
power supply which it is controlling, if any, but has no other effect).
.TP
.B \-\-shutdown
.RB ( \-X )
Command the unit to shut down completely.  It will be unresponsive until
power cycled or the reset button is pressed to reboot the controller.
.TP
.BI \-\-speed= rate
.RB ( \-b
.IR rate )
Set the serial port to the given
baud
.IR rate .
[Default is 19200 baud.]
.TP
.BI \-\-txdelay= mS
.RB ( \-m
.IR mS )
Delay 
.I mS
milliseconds between each transition from transmitting to receiving mode and vice versa.
Usually only needed for half-duplex networks.
.TP
.BI \-\-txlevel= level
.RB ( \-L
.IR level )
Transmit mode is controlled by either the DTR or RTS lines.  This option controls what logic level
on that line means to engage the transmitter.  The value of
.I level
may be either 
.RB \*(lq 0 \*(rq
to mean a logic low (off) indicates transmit mode, or
.RB \*(lq 1 \*(rq
to mean a logic high (on) is used.
.TP
.BI \-\-txmode= line
.RB ( \-T
.IR line )
Specifies which serial control line is used to control the RS-485 transmitter.  The
value for 
.I line
may be either
.RB \*(lq dtr \*(rq
or
.RB \*(lq rts \*(rq.
.TP
.B \-\-wake
.RB ( \-w )
Tell the unit to start the attached power supply from sleep mode.
command is given at a future time.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
.RB ( \-v )
Output messages to the standard output.  Additional 
.B \-\-verbose
options increases verbosity.  High levels of verbosity include a dump
of every bit sent or received on the serial network.
.\" <</>>
.SH "CONFIGURATION FILE FORMAT"
.LP
The files read and written by the 
.B \-\-dump\-configuration
and
.B \-\-load\-configuration
options use a fairly standard configuration file format similar to the
\*(lqini\*(rq files used by early versions of Microsoft Windows and other 
systems.  For full details of this format see
.BR "http://docs.python.org/library/configparser.html" ,
but the highlights include:
.TP 3 \" <<enumerate>>
1.
One data value per line (long lines may be continued by indentation ala RFC 822 headers).
.TP
2.
Each line consists of the name of a data value, either an equals sign or a colon,
and the value itself.
.TP
3.
A syntax 
.BI %( name )s
can be used to substitute values into other values.  Literal percent signs in values
are simply doubled 
.RB (\*(lq %% \*(rq).
.LP \" <</>>
All configration data are contained in a stanza called
.RB \*(lq [lumos_device_settings] \*(rq.
The values are detailed individually below.
.\" <</bold-is-fixed>>
.B "Note that some of these describe anticipated future features of the Lumos hardware that are not available at this time."
.\" <<bold-is-fixed>>
These future features are recognized by 
.B lumosctl
as documented here, but won't actually have any effect until they are fully implemented in the Lumos
firmware.
.TP \" <<list>>
.BI baud= n
The configured serial I/O speed of the device.  Supported values include 300, 600, 1200, 2400,
4800, 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600, 115200, and 250000.  Speeds slower than 9600 baud
are not recommended. [Default is 19200.]
.TP
.BI dmxchannel= n
If this field exists, the Lumos board is to run in DMX512 mode, with its channel #0 appearing
at DMX512 slot 
.RI # n ,
where
.I n
is an integer in the range 1\-512.
If this field is not present, the Lumos board will not be configured to recognize DMX512 packets
at all.
.TP
.BI phase= offset
The AC waveform phase offset for the unit.  This should only be changed if needed due to some
anomaly with the zero-crossing detector which throws off the unit's timing.  This is an integer
in the range 0\-511.  [Default is 2.]
.TP
.BI sensors= list
The value is a list of single letters in the range A\-D.  Each letter appearing in this
list indicates that the corresponding sensor input should be enabled in the hardware.
You must ensure that the hardware is really configured that way.  
.\" <</>>
.SS "Sensor Configuration"
.LP
For each sensor listed in the 
.B sensors
field, a corresponding stanza called 
.RB \*(lq [lumos_device_sensor_\fIx\fP] \*(rq
appears, where 
.I x
is the name of the sensor 
.RB (\*(lq A \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq B \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq C \*(rq,
or
.RB \*(lq D \*(rq),
with the following fields:
.TP \" <<list>>
.BI enabled= bool
If 
.RB \*(lq yes \*(rq,
the sensor input is set to be monitored.  If
.RB \*(lq no \*(rq,
it is ignored.  [Default is 
.RB \*(lq yes \*(rq.]
.TP
.BR mode= { once | repeat | while }
Define the operating mode of the sensor trigger: play once per trigger,
repeat forever until another trigger (or explicit command to stop), or
play as long as sensor remains active. [Default is 
.BR once .]
.TP
.BI setup= id
Sequence
.I id
number to be played initially when the sensor becomes active
.TP
.BI sequence= id
Sequence
.I id
number to be played as the main (possibly repeated) aciton for the sensor.
.TP
.BI terminate= id
Sequence
.I id
number to be played when the action stops. Note that the
main sequence might not have played to completion.
.\" <</>>
.SH "SEQUENCE SOURCE SYNTAX"
.LP
Each source file given to 
.B \-\-load\-sequence
contains one or more sequence definitions as described here.  The formal syntax
definition for the sequence language is still being designed and will be documented
here when it is implemented.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .RS \" [[code]]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .nf
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .na
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <sequence> ::= SEQUENCE <id> ['(' <arg-list> ')'] <block>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <statement-list> ::= <statement> <newline> 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | <statement-list> <statement> <newline>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <statement> ::= BLACKOUT
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | CHANNEL <chan> <state>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | RAMP <direction> <chan> [BY <steps> [PER <time>]]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | CALL <id> ['(' <value-list> ')']
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | EXECUTE <id> ['(' <value-list> ')']
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | WAIT <time>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | FOR <symbol> '=' <value> TO <value> [BY <value>] <block>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | IF <condition> <block>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | UNLESS <condition> <block>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | REPEAT [<value> [TIME[S]]] [AS <symbol>] <block>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | BREAK <symbol>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | CONTINUE <symbol>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | <symbol> '=' <value>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | SLEEP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | WAKE
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | SUSPEND [WITH UPDATE]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | RESUME [WITH FADE]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | EXIT
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <block> ::= ':' <newline> <statement-list> END
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <id> ::= 0 | 1 | ... | 127
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <chan> ::= <value> (allowed range 0...63)
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <dimmer-value> ::= 0 | 1 | ... | 255
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <percentage> ::= 0 | 1 | ... | 100
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <state> ::= ON | OFF | <dimmer-value> | <percentage> '%'
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <direction> ::= UP | DOWN
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <steps> ::= 1 | 2 | ... | 128
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <time> :: = <cycles> | <real> SEC[ONDS]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <cycles> ::= 1 | 2 | ... | 128
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <real> ::= <digits> ['.' [<digits>]] | [<digits>] '.' <digits>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <condition> ::= SUSPENDED
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | SENSOR <sens-list>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | <value> <comparison> <value>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <comparison> ::= '<' | '>' | '==' | '!=' | '<=', '>='
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <arg-list> ::= <symbol> | <arg-list> ',' <symbol>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <value-list> ::= <value> | <value-list> ',' <value>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <value> ::= <int> 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | <symbol>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | <value> '*' <value>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | <value> '+' <value>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | <value> '-' <value>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | <value> '/' <value>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX      | '(' <value> ')'
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <int> ::= ['-' | '+'] <digits>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <symbol> ::= <letter> | <symbol> <digit> | <symbol> <letter>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <digits> ::= <digit> | <digits> <digit>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <digit> ::= '0' | '1' | ... | '9'
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <letter> ::= '_' | 'A' | 'B' | ... | 'Z'
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <sens-list> ::= <sens> | <sens-list> OR <sens>
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <sens> ::= 'A' | 'B' | 'C' | 'D'
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  <newline> ::= '\en'
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .fi
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .ad
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .RE \" [[/code]]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .LP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  While the language keywords are shown here in upper-case letters,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  in fact all symbols are interpreted irrespective of case throughout
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  the sequence source file.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .LP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .SS Expressions
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Simple math expressions are supported, including addition, subtraction,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  multiplication, and division, but the values supported by the hardware
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  runtime system are exclusively 8 bit unsigned integers.  Division is not
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  supported at all in the hardware.  Math involving compile-time values
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  is not so limited, but if the expression evaluation remaining to be done
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  at runtime it too complex, the compiler will issue a fatal error.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .SS "Flow Control Constructs"
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .LP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Each of these constructs operates on a 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I block
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  of code.  A block is a sequence of one or more lines of code (each terminated
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  by a newline), ending with an 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B END
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  statement.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .LP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP \" [[list]]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BI "IF SENSOR " s1 " \fR[\fPOR " s2 "\fR] [...]\fP: \fR...\fP END"
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Execute the statements in the block if any of the sensors are currently active.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR "IF SUSPENDED: " ... " END"
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Execute the block if the unit is currently in a suspended state.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BI "IF " condition ": \fR...\fP END"
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Execute the block if the condition holds. This is a simple comparison between
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  two values, where the comparison may be equals, not equals, less than, greater than,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  less than or equal, or greater than or equal as represented by the operators
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR == ,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR != ,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR < ,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR > ,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR <= ,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  and
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR >= ,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  respectively.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR "UNLESS " ...
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  All of the forms of the
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B IF
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  construct may be used with the word 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B UNLESS
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  substituted for
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR IF .
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  In this case, the sense of the conditional test is reversed.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BI "REPEAT \fR[\fP" n " \fR[\fPTIME\fR[\fPS\fR]]\fP \fR[\fPAS " var "\fR]\fP: \fR...\fP END"
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Repeat the statements in the block until forced to quit via 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B EXIT
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  or
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR BREAK .
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  If a repeat count
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I n
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  is given, then at most only repeat the statements that many times.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  The 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B AS
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  clause allows the current loop counter (which begins at 0 and counts up to, 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  but never reaches,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .IR n )
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  to be visible within the block as the variable
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .IR var .
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BI "FOR " var = start " TO " end " \fR[\fPBY " step "\fR]\fP: \fR...\fP END"
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Repeat the statements in the block once for each value of 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I var
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  from
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I start
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  to 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .IR end ,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  inclusive.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  If
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I step
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  is given, 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I var
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  is incremented by that amount between each iteration.  The default
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I step
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  is 1.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  The behavior of this loop may be modified by
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B BREAK
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  or
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B CONTINUE
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  statements just like the
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B REPEAT
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  loops are.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BI "BREAK \fR[\fP" var \fR]\fP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Terminate the innermost loop immediately.  If an outer loop is to be terminated,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  then specify its index 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I var
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  to identify which loop is the target of this statement.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BI "CONTINUE \fR[\fP" var \fR]\fP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Begin the next iteration of the innermost loop immediately.  
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  If an outer loop is to be continued,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  then specify its index 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I var
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  to identify which loop is the target of this statement.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BI "SEQUENCE " id \fR[\fP( var ", \fR...\fP)\fR]\fP: \fR...\fP END"
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Define a stored sequence consisting of the statements to the 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR END .
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  The 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I id
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  may be a number from 0 to 127, with a few caveats:
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .RS \" [[desc]]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  #0:
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Sequence #0 may \" [[/ital-is-var]]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I never
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  be explicitly invoked by anything.  This sequence is invoked automatically
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  during device boot to initialize the unit.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  #1\-63:
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Sequences in this range are stored in EEPROM and will survive a power failure
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  or device reboot.  Note that there probably won't be enough available memory
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  to actually store 63 sequences.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  #64\-127:
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Sequences in this range are stored in RAM and will 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I not
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  survive a power failure
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  or device reboot.  Note that there probably won't be enough available memory
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  to actually store 64 sequences in RAM. \" [[ital-is-var]]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .RE \" [[/]]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .LP \" [[/]]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  If input parameters are expected, they are given symbolic names inside
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  parentheses between the sequence
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I id
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  and the colon.  A maximum of four parameters are allowed.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .SS Commands
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .LP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Each statement is described briefly here.  For more details, see the
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Lumos board user manual.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP \" [[list]]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B BLACKOUT
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Immediately turn off all channel outputs.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BI "CALL " id \fR[\fP( value ",\fR ...\fP)\fR]\fP"
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Suspend the execution of the current sequence and begin executing
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  sequence
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .RI # id .
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  When that sequence has completed, execution of the current sequence
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  will resume where it left off.  Up to four parameters may be passed
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  to the called sequence by placing them inside parentheses after the
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  sequence 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .IR id .
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  The 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I id
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  cannot be 0.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BI "CHANNEL " c " ON|OFF|" value \fR[\fP%\fR]\fP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Change the output level of channel
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I c
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  to fully on, fully off, or to a specific value.  If the value
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  is followed by a percent sign 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .RB (\*(lq % \*(rq),
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  then the value is assumed to be a percentage in the range 0\-100.  \"Otherwise
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .\"the value interpreted as an absolute output value in the range [0, 255].  Note that
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .\"sequences are always considered to be \*(lqhigh resolution\*(rq so this number range
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .\"is used ragardless of whether the board itself is in high or low resolution mode.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BI "EXECUTE " id \fR[\fP( value ",\fR ...\fP)\fR]\fP"
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Abandon the current sequence and begin executing the specified sequence
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  instead.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  When that sequence has completed, execution of the current sequence
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  will not resume.  Up to four parameters may be passed
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  to the new sequence by placing them inside parentheses after the
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  sequence 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .IR id .
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Note that the 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I id
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  cannot be 0.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B EXIT
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Terminate execution of the current sequence.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BI "RAMP UP|DOWN " c " \fR[\fPBY " steps " \fR[\fPPER " time " \fR[\fPSEC\fR[\fPONDS\fR]]]\fP"
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Start fading channel
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I c
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  up or down from its current output level to the maximum or minimum value.  This is done
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  by adding or subtracting the value of
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I steps
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  (which is in the range 1\-128) each time, pausing for
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I time
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  between each value change.  If the
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I time
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  value is followed by 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B SEC
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  or
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR SECONDS ,
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  it is assumed to be the number of seconds between level changes (a real number
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  in the range 0.0083\-1.0667). 
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Otherwise, it is assumed to be an integer in the range 1\-128 specifying the number
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  of 1/120ths of a second for the pause.  
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR "RESUME " [ "WITH FADE" ]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Resume from
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B SUSPEND
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  mode.  If the
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B "WITH FADE"
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  option is given, then all channels are faded down to fully off, and then up to
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  their last-known state is supposed to be.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B SLEEP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Enter sleep state.  The load power supply is commanded to shut down (if such
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  a supply is connected that way to the controller).  Note that the unit may still
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  wake on its own as needed, possibly even immediately.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR "SUSPEND " [ "WITH UPDATE" ]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Suspend input of commands from outside.  From this point forward, only saved
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  sequences will affect channel outputs.  If the
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B "WITH UPDATE"
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  option is given, then external commands are still accepted but have no effect
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  on the outputs until after a
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B RESUME
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  is executed.  Note that a unit may still remain in suspended state after the
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  sequence putting it in that state exits.  It only ends upon
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR RESUME .
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .BR "WAIT \fIt\fP " [ SEC [ ONDS ]]
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Pause execution of the script for the designated time.  The time
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .I t
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  is interpreted identically to that described above for the
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B RAMP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  command.
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .TP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B WAKE
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  Wake up the unit from
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .B SLEEP
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  mode.  The power supply is commanded to start (if a suitable one is appropriately
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  configured).
.\"  XXX FUTURE XXX  .\" [[/]]
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
support@madscience.zone
.SH COMPATIBILITY
.LP
This version of 
.B lumosctl
is compatible with the following boards:
.TP 2 \" <<itemize>> <</ital-is-var>>
*
Lumos 48-channel controller version 3.1 or 3.2
.I "providing it has been upgraded or installed with ROM firmware version 3.0 or later"
(boards with ID markings beginning with \*(lq48CTL-3-1\*(rq or \*(lqLUMOS-48CTL-3.2\*(rq).  (Whether this controller is
driving AC or DC boards is irrelevant.)
.TP 
*
Lumos 24-channel DC controller version 1.0 (boards with ID markings beginning with
\*(lqLUMOS-24SSR-DC-1.0\*(rq).
.TP
*
Lumos 4-channel DC controller version 1.0 (boards with ID markings beginning with
\*(lqLUMOS-4SSR-DC-1.0\*(rq).
.\" <</>>
.SH HISTORY

.LP
This program first appeared under the name
.B 48ssrctl
and was used only for the Lumos 48-channel AC controller boards, employing the
older firmware (ROM versions less than
.RI 3. x ).
.LP
This document describes version 2.0 of this utility, which is the first to carry
this name and to include the expanded features for firmware version 3.0.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lumosasm (1).
.SH LIMITATIONS
.LP
This program does not send DMX512 commands to the device(s), only Lumos native
commands.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Sometimes 
.B lumosctl
doesn't correctly track board configuration changes and incorrectly reports that 
the Lumos board's configuration was \*(lqnot as expected\*(rq even though the operation
was successful.  If this happens, try running
.B lumosctl
.B \-R
to get a fresh report of the board's status and verify that it is configured as desired.
.LP
The sequence language is constrained by the limits of the hardware (such as 8-bit
unsigned integer values and limited arithmetic expression evaluation), 
by the need to 
be compiled to fit in a very small memory space.  As such, the optimization
toward certain use cases and against others may seem odd at first, but it serves that
purpose.
.LP
Submit any other issues found to 
.BR support@madscience.zone .
