.TH 48SSRCTL 1 0.0 "48-Channel SSR Controller" "Utility Commands"
.SH NAME
48ssrctl \- Manual control for 48-channel SSR controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B 48ssrctl
.RB [ \-dhksv ]
.RB [ \-a
.IR addr ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR newaddr ]
.RB [ \-P
.IR phase ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR port ]
.RI [ channel [\fB@\fP level ]...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This command allows you to directly manipulate the state of a
48-channel SSR controller unit, including administration functions
such as changing the unit's address, phase offset, etc.
.LP
The controller in question is a custom design I created as an
experiment; this program is merely a utility to help set up and
test one of these units.
.LP
The normal operation is to make a number of channel output level 
changes as determined by the non-option arguments which are of the
form:
.RS
.I channel
.RE
or
.RS
.IB channel @ level
.RE
.LP
In the first case, a channel number by itself means to turn on that 
channel to full brightness.  Otherwise, by specifying a level value
(a number from 0 to 31, inclusive), that channel's output is dimmed
to the given level.  Level 31 is the same as turning on to full 
brightness; level 0 is the same as turning it fully off.
.LP
A number of options are provided as described below.  These command
the SSR controller to perform certain administrative functions or 
configuration changes.
.LP
When giving multiple types of commands in one invocation of this
program, they will be carried out in the following order:
.LP
.nf
1. Address Change
2. Kill all channels
3. Phase change
4. Disable privileges
5. Channel(s) off/on/dim
6. Shutdown
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Each of the following options may be specified by either a long
option (like
.RB \*(lq \-\-verbose \*(rq)
or a shorter option letter (like
.RB \*(lq \-v \*(rq).
If an option takes a parameter, it may follow the option as
.RB \*(lq \-a12 \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq "\-a 12" \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq "\-\-address 12" \*(rq,
or
.RB \*(lq "\-\-address=12" \*(rq.
.LP
Long option names may be abbreviated to any unambiguous initial substring.
.TP 25
.BI \-\-address= addr
.RB ( \-a
.IR addr )
Specifies the address of the target controller unit.  The
.I addr
value is an integer from 0 to 15, inclusive.  It defaults to 0.
.TP
.BI \-\-change-address= newaddr
.RB ( \-c
.IR newaddr )
Tell the unit to change its address to
.IR newaddr .
Any subsequent commands sent to the unit in this invocation will
be addressed to 
.IR newaddr .
The effect of this command is permanent; the new address will remain
in effect for that unit, even if powered off, until another 
.B \-\-change\-address
command is given at a future time.
.TP
.B \-\-disable-privs
.RB ( \-d )
Disable privileged functions on the unit.  This makes the unit ignore
.BR \-\-change\-address ,
.BR \-\-phase ,
and
.B \-\-shutdown
commands.  This will remain in effect until the unit is reset or power
cycled.  (Note that the
.B \-\-phase
command resets the unit.)
.TP
.B \-\-help
.RB ( \-h )
Prints a summary of these options and exits.
.TP
.B \-\-kill\-all
.RB ( \-k )
Turn off all output channels at once.
.TP
.BI \-\-phase= phase
.RB ( \-P
.IR phase )
Change the phase offset for the unit to the new value
.IR phase ,
which must be an integer from 0 to 63.
.I "Only use this function if you absolutely know what you are doing!"
This affects the timing used by the unit for dimmer control, in case it
needs to be adjusted to work correctly.
The effect of this command is permanent; the new phase offset will remain
in effect for that unit, even if powered off, until another 
.B \-\-phase
command is given at a future time.
.TP
.BI \-\-port= port
.RB ( \-p
.IR port )
Specify the serial port to use when communicating with the controller
unit.  This may be a simple integer value (0 for the first serial port
on the system, 1 for the next one, etc.) or the actual device name
on your system (such as 
.RB \*(lq COM1 \*(rq
or
.RB \*(lq /dev/ttys0 \*(rq).
.TP
.B \-\-shutdown
.RB ( \-s )
Shuts down the unit completely.  This will remain in effect until the
unit is reset or power cycled.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
.RB ( \-v )
Output messages to the standard output showing what control bits are being
transmitted to the unit.
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Software Alchemy / support@alchemy.com
.SH HISTORY
This document describes version 1.0 of this utility, which is the original
release.  It is compatible with revision 3.1 of the SSR controller unit
(circuit boards with \*(lq48CTL-3-1\*(rq markings).
.SH BUGS
Submit any found to support@alchemy.com
