.TH LCHECK 1 "Lumos" "Software Alchemy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lcheck \- Check integrity of show configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lcheck
.RB [ \-hv ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.IR files ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
When creating or modifying your show configuration file, it is recommended
that you run 
.B lcheck
to perform some basic sanity checks on your configuration.
.LP
This will load up the system descriptions (power sources, loads, networks,
controllers, etc.) exactly as the rest of the Lumos system will,
and in the process will attempt to discover and report any illegal combination
of parameters, missing fields, etc.  If these are reported, you must fix them
and re-run 
.B lcheck
until no problems are reported, before trying to run a show with that
configuration file.
.LP
In addition, 
.B lcheck
will warn you of some potential hazards and other problems, such as lack
of GFIC protection and overloaded circuits.  Note, however, that the load
calculated by 
.B lcheck
is merely the sum of the loads placed on a given power source, and represents
the maximum load drawn if all channels were turned on at the same time.  The
scene player tools will also watch for circuit overload conditions, considering
which loads are actually on at any given moment in time during the scene.
Due to the potential for hardware, software or communication error, it is 
possible that more circuits might be energized than the scene directs, so it
is wise to avoid letting the max load as reported by
.B lcheck
exceed the stated capacity of the power source, even if you don't intend to 
run all the loads at once.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options may be given to
.BR lcheck :
.TP
.B \-h
.RB ( \-\-help )
Print a basic help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-v
.RB ( \-\-verbose )
Print a summary of the show configuration.  By default,
.B lcheck
only reports on errors it sees.  The verbose output is a good way to visually
check that the configuration specified in the file looks correct once it's 
interpreted.  The verbose output is also useful to print out and use as a 
reference when hooking up the actual load hardware.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Prints the version number of the program and exits.
.SH HISTORY
.LP
The
.B lcheck
utility appeared in version 1.1 of Lumos.
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby, support@alchemy.com
.SH BUGS
.LP
Does not detect superfluous config file sections or data fields.  These will
simply be silently ignored in some cases.  However, extra data fields in 
some device specification sections (e.g., controller unit definitions) will
be caught by
.B lcheck
and reported.
.LP
The error messages aren't always very user-friendly and may sometimes be
outright cryptic.
