.TH LPLAY 1 "Lumos" "Software Alchemy" "User Commands"
'\"
'\" LUMOS DOCUMENTATION: LPLAY
'\" $Header: /tmp/cvsroot/lumos/man/man1/lplay.1,v 1.1 2008-12-30 22:58:02 steve Exp $
'\"
'\" Lumos Light Orchestration System
'\" Copyright © 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha,
'\" Oregon, USA.  All Rights Reserved.  Licensed under the Open Software
'\" License version 3.0.
'\"
'\" This product is provided for educational, experimental or personal
'\" interest use, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
'\" aforementioned license agreement, ON AN "AS IS" BASIS AND WITHOUT
'\" WARRANTY, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
'\" THE WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
'\" PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY OF THE ORIGINAL
'\" WORK IS WITH YOU.  (See the license agreement for full details, 
'\" including disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability.)
'\"
'\" Under no curcumstances is this product intended to be used where the
'\" safety of any person, animal, or property depends upon, or is at
'\" risk of any kind from, the correct operation of this software or
'\" the hardware devices which it controls.
'\"
'\" USE THIS PRODUCT AT YOUR OWN RISK.
'\" 
.SH NAME
lplay \- Play a Lumos sequence file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lplay
.RB [ \-\-test ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-config=\fIfile\fP ]
.IR files ...
.br
.B lplay
.B \-\-help
.br
.B lplay
.B \-\-version
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B lplay
program executes (\*(lqplays\*(rq) one or more Lumos sequence files, 
sending the appropriate commands to the light controller hardware as
described in the 
.I config
file (see the
.B \-c
option).
.LP
Each 
.I file
specified on the command line is played entirely before the next file is 
loaded and played.  This may introduce a slight lag time between files.
The hardware controllers are only initialized before the first sequence,
so the sequence files can represent parts of a whole scene, continuing
from whatever state the previous sequence left behind.
.LP
Note that it is recommended to run
.BR lcheck (1)
to perform some basic sanity checks on your configuration prior to using
it to play scenes.  Pay close attention to circuit loads when planning your 
scenes to ensure that you don't overload anything.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options may be given to
.BR lplay .
They may be specified using either short format, e.g.:
.LP
.RS
.na
.B "lplay \-T \-c show.conf scene1.lseq scene2.lseq"
.ad
.RE
.LP
Or using the longer format, e.g.:
.LP
.RS
.na
.B "lplay \-\-test \-\-config=show.conf scene1.lseq scene2.lseq"
.ad
.RE
.LP
Or a combination of both.
.LP
The following options may be given to
.BR lplay :
.TP 10
.BI \-c " file"
.RB ( \-\-config=\fIfile\fP )
Get show configuration information from the specified
.IR file .
This is necessary for Lumos programs such as
.B lplay
to know what hardware is part of the show, how to communicate with it, and
therefore how to interpret what the sequence files are describing.
.TP
.B \-h
.RB ( \-\-help )
Print a basic help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-T
.RB ( \-\-test )
Run the sequences in \*(lqtest mode\*(rq.  This performs a dry run of the
scene, but instead of actually sending commands to any hardware, 
.B lplay
prints out what it would be doing, along with the scheduled time each event
was supposed to take place and the actual measured time when it occurred
during the test run.
.TP
.B \-v
.RB ( \-\-verbose )
Print information about the sequence, show configuration, and other 
supposedly interesting facts about the scene playback operation.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Prints the version number of the program and exits.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR lcheck (1),
.BR lumos (1),
.BR lumos-sequence (5).
.SH HISTORY
.LP
This utility appeared in Lumos version 0.1, but was originally called
.BR playsequence .
It was renamed
.B lplay
beginning with version 0.3.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.LP
Lumos Light Orchestration System,
Copyright \(co 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha,
Oregon, USA.  All Rights Reserved.  Licensed under the Open Software
License version 3.0.  See the
.B LICENSE
file accompanying the Lumos software distribution for full terms
and conditions of use, disclaimer of warranty, limitation of liability
and other information, or see:
.br
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/osl-3.0.php.
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby, support@alchemy.com
.SH BUGS
.LP
Needs a way to specify repeats, loops, and similar effects.  Real-time event
cues or external sensor triggers would also be nice to add.
.LP
Test mode should warn about circuit capacity overload conditions.  This is 
currently not implemented.  However, the
.BR lpower (1)
utility provides a static check for power overloads before running the actual
show at all.  This is preferred so overloads can be avoided before they happen.
'\" 
'\" $Log: not supported by cvs2svn $
'\" 
